.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH syndaemon __appmansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
.LP
syndaemon \- a program that monitors keyboard and/or TrackPoint activity and
changes the touchpad's settings accordingly.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
syndaemon [\fI\-i idle\-time\fP] [\fI\-m poll-inverval\fP] [\fI\-d\fP] [\fI\-p pid\-file\fP]
[\fI\-t\fP] [\fI\-k\fP] [\fI\-K\fP] [\fI\-R\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
syndaemon has two functions:
.IP \(bu 4
Disabling the touchpad whenever the user is typing, in order to avoid unwanted
movements of the pointer that could lead to giving focus to the wrong window.
.IP \(bu 4
Switching the touchpad into TrackPoint mode whenever the TrackPoint is being
used. This makes TrackPoints lacking physical buttons far more useful, since
accidentally moving the cursor and being unable to press the soft buttons with
the touchpad while using the TrackPoint is no longer an issue.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.TP
\fB\-B\fR
Monitors the keyboard activity and shuts off the touchpad accordingly. If
neither \fB\-B\fR or \fB\-T\fR are specified, syndaemon will default to this.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-i\fR <\fIkeyboard\-idle\-time\fP>
How many seconds to wait after the last key press before enabling the
touchpad.
.
(default is 2.0s). 
.LP
.TP
\fB\-m\fR <\fIpoll\-interval\fP>
How many milliseconds to wait between two polling intervals. If this value is
too low, it will cause unnecessary wake-ups. If this value is too high,
some key presses (press and release happen between two intervals) may not
be noticed. This switch has no effect when running with
\fB-R\fP.
.
Default is 200ms.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Start as a daemon, ie in the background.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-p\fR <\fIpid\-file\fP>
Create a pid file with the specified filename.
.
A pid file will only be created if the program is started in daemon
mode.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Only disable tapping and scrolling, not mouse movements, in response
to keyboard activity.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-k\fP
Ignore modifier keys when monitoring keyboard activity.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-K\fP
Like \-k but also ignore Modifier+Key combos.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-R\fP
Use the XRecord extension for detecting keyboard activity instead of polling
the keyboard state.
.LP
.TP
\fB\-T\fR <\fItrackpoint\-name\fP>
Monitors the TrackPoint activity from \fItrackpoint\-name\fP and switches the
touchpad into TrackPoint mode when movement is detected from the TrackPoint.
When in TrackPoint mode although clickpad button presses are still enabled,
movement of the cursor is not enabled and the clickpad's soft buttons (if there
are any) will be located at an alternate location (usually closer to the
TrackPoint).
.LP
.TP
\fB\-I\fR <\fItrackpoint-idle-time\fP>
How many seconds to wait after the last TrackPoint movement before switching the
touchpad out of TrackPoint mode.
.
Default is 2.0s
.LP
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Show the help message.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP
.TP
\fBDISPLAY\fP
Specifies the X server to contact.
.SH EXIT CODES
If syndaemon exists with a return code other than 0, the error encountered
is as below.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 1
Invalid commandline argument.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 2
The connection to the X sever could not be established or no touchpad device
could be found.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 3
The fork into daemon mode failed or the pid file could not be created.
.LP
.TP
\fBExit code 4
XRECORD requested but not available or usable on the server.
.SH "CAVEATS"
.LP
It doesn't make much sense to connect to a remote X server, because
the daemon will then monitor the remote server for keyboard activity,
but will disable the touchpad on the local machine.
.LP
At the moment, the only way for syndaemon to monitor the TrackPoint is by
polling at a specific interval, which can be a bit ineffeciant on batteries.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Peter Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>.
Lyude <thatslyude@gmail.com>.
.TP
This man page was originally written by Mattia Dongili <malattia@debian.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), synclient(__appmansuffix__), synaptics(__drivermansuffix__)
